Lord of this house!
Your cellar is full of golden wine!
Here, this lute I call my own!
Strumming on the lute and emptying glasses - these are the things that go together.
A full glass of wine at the proper moment is worth more than all the riches of the world!
Dark is life, dark is death.
The heavens are forever blue and the earth Will stand firm for a long time and bloom in spring.
But you, Man, how long will you live then?
Not a hundred years are you allowed to enjoy in all the rotten triviality of this earth!
Look down there!
In the moonlight, on the graves crouch crouches a wild, ghostly figure - It is an ape!
Hear how its howls resound piercingly in the sweet fragrance of life!
Now take the wine! Now is the time - enjoy!
Empty the golden goblet to the bottom!
Dark is life, dark is death!
The sweet fragrance of flowers has flown away; a cold wind forces them to bow their stems low.
Soon the wilted golden leaves of lotus flowers will drift upon the water.
My heart is weary. My small lamp has gone out with a splutter; it reminds me of sleep.
I am coming to you, comfort place of rest!
Yes, give me rest - I have need of rejuvenation.
I weep much in my solitude.
The autumn in my heart has lasted too long.
Sun of love, will you never shine again, gently to dry my bitter tears?
If life is only a dream, why then the misery and torment?
I drink until I can drink no more, the whole, dear day!
What do I hear when I awake? Listen! A bird singing in the tree.
I fall asleep again, for what does Spring mean to me? Let me be drunk!
The sun departs behind the mountains.
O look! Like a silver boat, the moon floats on the blue sky-lake above.
I feel the fine wind wafting behind the dark spruce.
Weary men go home, to learn in sleep forgotten happiness and youth.
The birds crouch silently in their branches.
The world is asleep!
I stand here and wait for my friend; I wait to bid him a last farewell.
I yearn, my friend, at your side to enjoy the beauty of this evening.
Where do you tarry? You leave me alone for so long!
I wander up and down with my lute, on paths swelling with soft grass.
O beauty! O eternal love - eternal, love-intoxicated world!
My friend, on this earth, fortune has not been kind to me!
Where do I go? I will go, wander in the mountains.
I seek peace for my lonely heart.
I wander to find my homeland, my home.
I will never stray to foreign lands.
Quiet is my heart, waiting for its hour!
The dear earth everywhere blooms in spring and grows green afresh!
Everywhere and eternally, distant places have blue skies!
